---
date: 2018-08-12
title: Sensitive Data Exposure
categories:
  - security
description:
type: Document
set: security
set_order: 9
---

## General information

Many web applications and APIs do not properly protect sensitive data, such as financial, healthcare, and PII.
Attackers may steal or modify such weakly protected data to conduct credit card fraud, identity theft, or other crimes.
Sensitive data may be compromised without extra protection. 


## Preventing

* Classify data processed, stored or transmitted by an application. Identify which data is sensitive according to privacy
laws, regulatory requirements, or business needs.
* Apply controls as per the classification.
* Don't store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as possible or use PCI DSS compliant tokenization or
even truncation. Data that is not retained cannot be stolen.
* Make sure to encrypt all sensitive data at rest.
* Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms, protocols, and keys are in place; use proper key management.
* Encrypt all data in transit with secure protocols such as TLS with perfect forward secrecy (PFS) ciphers, cipher
prioritization by the server, and secure parameters. Enforce encryption using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
* Disable caching for response that contain sensitive data.
* Store passwords using strong adaptive and salted hashing functions with a work factor (delay factor), such
as Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt or PBKDF2.
* Verify independently the effectiveness of configuration and settings.

## Basic examples
 
The password database uses unsalted or simple hashes to store everyone's passwords. A file upload
flaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password database. All the unsalted hashes can be exposed
with a rainbow table of pre-calculated hashes. Hashes generated by simple or fast hash functions may
be cracked by GPUs, even if they were salted.

## What's next?

Here are some useful links to expand your knowledge:
* Extended info about vulnerability is listed on [OWASP article](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10-2017_A3-Sensitive_Data_Exposure);
* [GitHub article](https://bounty.github.com/classifications/sensitive-data-exposure.html) that contains list of bug bounties related to this vulnerability;
* [More](https://hdivsecurity.com/owasp-sensitive-data-exposure) about vulnerability and how to prevent it;
* [Article](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/security_testing/testing_sensitive_data_exposure.htm) that contains good explanation of testing techniques
which can be applied to this vulnerability.
